Your grade: 80%
Your latest: 80%•
Your highest: 80%•
To pass you need at least 80%. We keep your highest score.
1.
Question 1
In addition to modifying an aspect of a composable’s appearance, which of the following can modifiers also be used to modify?

1 / 1 point

behavior



decorators



padding



styling


Correct
Correct! Modifiers allow you to impart specific behavior or activity to UI elements.

2.
Question 2
Which of the following Material Components can be implemented using Jetpack Compose? Select all that apply.

0 / 1 point

button


Correct
That's correct! Jetpack Compose allows you to implement a button with a consistent look and feel.


list


This should not be selected
Not quite. Please review the video 
Scaffold
. 


text-field


Correct
Correct! Jetpack Compose allows you to implement a text-field with a consistent look and feel.


card


Correct
Correct! Jetpack Compose allows you to implement a card with a consistent look and feel.

3.
Question 3
 Which of the following is true when using modifiers with layouts in Jetpack Compose? 

1 / 1 point

Modifiers can be used to alter the size, position and other attributes of composables. 



Modifiers can be used to completely replace the layout. 



Modifiers can be used to modify the behavior of the layout. 



Modifiers can be used to customize the appearance of the layout. 


Correct
That's correct! When augmenting the appearance of composables, modifiers act as decorators. 

4.
Question 4
Which of the following is the special object Compose uses to hold the value of a state?

1 / 1 point

State



MutableState



MutableStateOf



remember 


Correct
That's correct! To define a MutableState you can call the built-in MutableStateOf function and pass in a value you want to hold as a parameter.

5.
Question 5
Which of the following does the button composable expect you to define?

1 / 1 point

onClick



onPress



onTap



onSubmit


Correct
That's correct! The onClick parameter is passed as a Lambda function which acts as an event handler.

6.
Question 6
What is a BottomSheetScaffold?

1 / 1 point

A UI pattern that provides a side-panel for navigating.



A UI pattern that provides a full screen overlay when triggered.



A UI pattern that slides up from the bottom of the screen.


Correct
That’s correct! Scaffold provides the basic structure to build your app, with components such as a BottomSheetScaffold that can be used to navigate between different screens or display additional content or options. 

7.
Question 7
Which of the following Design Systems can Jetpack Compose make it easy to implement?

1 / 1 point

Polaris



Material Design



Uber Design 



Human Interface Guidelines


Correct
That's correct! The Navigation Drawer Scaffold is commonly used to provide access to an application’s top-level navigation items.

8.
Question 8
What of the following is a parameter that accepts composable content?

0 / 1 point

lambdas



modifiers



composables



slots


Incorrect
Not quite. Please review the reading 
Material components
.

9.
Question 9
Which of the following UI patterns normally opens by clicking a button on the top app bar or by swiping from the left edge of the screen to the right?

1 / 1 point

the navigation drawer



snackbars



floating action buttons



app bars


Correct
That's correct! The navigation drawer contains several UI elements, many of which are buttons, icons or other clickable text elements.

10.
Question 10
What are UI Patterns? 

1 / 1 point

UI Patterns are algorithms used to compute the layout of an Android UI. 



UI Patterns are reusable solutions to common user interface problems during Android UI building in Jetpack Compose. 



UI Patterns are components of an Android UI that can be reused. 



UI Patterns are data structures used to represent UI elements in an Android UI. 


Correct
That’s correct! UI Patterns are reusable solutions for common user interface problems encountered when building an Android UI in Jetpack Compose. 